It was freezingly cold, and this job of seeing off a distinguished stranger was not
one to be envied, but Lieutenant Dubosc performed his part manfully. Graceful
phrases fell from his lips in polished French. Not that he knew what it was
all about. There had been rumours, of course, as there always were in such
cases. The General's—his General's—temper had grown worse and worse. And
then there had come this Belgian stranger—all the way from England, it seemed.
There had been a week—a week of curious tensity. And then certain things had
happened. A very distinguished officer had committed suicide, another had
suddenly resigned, anxious faces had suddenly lost their anxiety, certain military
precautions were relaxed. And the General, Lieutenant Dubosc's own particular
General, had suddenly looked ten years younger.
Dubosc had overheard part of a conversation between him and the stranger. "You
have saved us, mon cher," said the General emotionally, his great white moustache
trembling as he spoke. "You have saved the honour of the French Army—you have
averted much bloodshed! How can I thank you for acceding to my request? To
have come so far—"
To which the stranger (by name M. Hercule Poirot) had made a fitting reply
including the phrase—"But indeed, do I not remember that once you saved my
life?" And then the General had made another fitting reply to that, disclaiming any
merit for that past service; and with more mention of France, of Belgium, of glory,
of honour and of such kindred things they had embraced each other heartily and
the conversation had ended.
As to what it had all been about, Lieutenant Dubosc was still in the dark, but to
him had been delegated the duty of seeing off M. Poirot by the Taurus Express,
and he was carrying it out with all the zeal and ardour befitting a young officer
with a promising career ahead of him.
"To-day is Sunday," said Lieutenant Dubosc. "Tomorrow, Monday evening, you
will be in Stamboul."
It was not the first time he had made this observation. Conversations on the
platform, before the departure of a train, are apt to be somewhat repetitive in
character.
"That is so," agreed M. Poirot.
"And you intend to remain there a few days, I think?"
"Mais oui. Stamboul, it is a city I have never visited. It would be a pity to pass
through—comme ça." He snapped his fingers descriptively. "Nothing presses—I
shall remain there as a tourist for a few days."
"La Sainte Sophie, it is very fine," said Lieutenant Dubosc, who had never seen it.
A cold wind came whistling down the platform. Both men shivered. Lieutenant
Dubosc managed to cast a surreptitious glance at his watch. Five minutes to five—
only five minutes more!
Fancying that the other man had noticed his glance, he hastened once more into
speech.
"There are few people travelling this time of year," he said, glancing up at the
windows of the sleeping-car above them.
"That is so," agreed M. Poirot.
"Let us hope you will not be snowed up in the Taurus!" "That happens?"
"It has occurred, yes. Not this year, as yet."
"Let us hope, then," said M. Poirot. "The weather reports from
Europe, they are bad.
"Very bad. In the Balkans there is much snow." "In Germany, too, I have heard."
"Eh bien," said Lieutenant Dubosc hastily as another pause seemed to be about to
occur. "Tomorrow evening at seven-forty you will be in Constantinople."
"Yes," said M. Poirot, and went on desperately, "La Sainte Sophie, I
